---
title: SELinux HOW TO
categories: Develop
tags:
    - Linux
    - SELinux
    - Security
---

## SElinux Basic Terminology

- Users

SELinux has a set of pre-built users. Every regular Linux user account is mapped to one or more SELinux users.

In Linux, a user runs a process. This can be as simple as the user jo opening a document in the vi editor (it will be jo's account running the vi process) or a service account running the httpd daemon. In the SELinux world, a process (a daemon or a running program) is called a subject.

- Roles

A role is like a gateway that sits between a user and a process. A role defines which users can access that process. Roles are not like groups, but more like filters: a user may enter or assume a role at any time provided the role grants it. The definition of a role in SELinux policy defines which users have access to that role. It also defines what process domains the role itself has access to. Roles come into play because part of SELinux implements what's known as Role Based Access Control (RBAC).


- Subjects and Objects

A subject is a process and can potentially affect an object.

An object in SELinux is anything that can be acted upon. This can be a file, a directory, a port, a tcp socket, the cursor, or perhaps an X server. The actions that a subject can perform on an object are the subject's permissions.


- Domains are for Subjects

A domain is the context within which an SELinux subject (process) can run. That context is like a wrapper around the subject. It tells the process what it can and can't do. For example, the domain will define what files, directories, links, devices, or ports are accessible to the subject.

- Types are for Objects

A type is the context for a file's context that stipulates the file's purpose. For example, the context of a file may dictate that it's a web page, or that the file belongs to the /etc directory, or that the file's owner is a specific SELinux user. A file's context is called its type in SELinux lingo.

- SElinux Policy

SELinux policy defines user access to roles, role access to domains, and domain access to types. First the user has to be authorized to enter a role, and then the role has to be authorized to access the domain. The domain in turn is restricted to access only certain types of files.

The policy itself is a bunch of rules that say that so-and-so users can assume only so-and-so roles, and those roles will be authorized to access only so-and-so domains. The domains in turn can access only so-and-so file types.


- So What is "Type Enforcement (TE)"?

where a process running within a particular domain can perform only certain operations on certain types of objects, is called Type Enforcement (TE).

SELinux policy defines user access to roles, role access to domains, and domain access to types. First the user has to be authorized to enter a role, and then the role has to be authorized to access the domain. The domain in turn is restricted to access only certain types of files.

The policy itself is a bunch of rules that say that so-and-so users can assume only so-and-so roles, and those roles will be authorized to access only so-and-so domains. The domains in turn can access only so-and-so file types. The following image shows the concept:

The last bit, where a process running within a particular domain can perform only certain operations on certain types of objects, is called Type Enforcement (TE).

## The compiled Policy inside system

- SELinux Policy in Linux kernel

When an SELinux-enabled system starts, the policy is loaded into memory. SELinux policy comes in modular format, much like the kernel modules loaded at boot time. And just like the kernel modules, they can be dynamically added and removed from memory at run time. The policy store used by SELinux keeps track of the modules that have been loaded. The sestatus command shows the policy store name. The semodule -l command lists the SELinux policy modules currently loaded into memory.

`semodule -l | less` output:
```
abrt
accountsd
acct
acpi
ada
afs
aiccu
aide
aisexec
alsa
amanda
amavis
amtu
apache
......
```
"semodule" can be used for a number other tasks like installing, removing, reloading, upgrading, enabling and disabling SELinux policy modules.
for more informations please see `man semodules`.

- SELinux Policy(TE) file localated

In Debian unstable, the compiled TE modules:
```
zhuzhihao@debian:~$ ls /usr/share/selinux/default/

certmaster.pp.bz2       fail2ban.pp.bz2         ktalk.pp.bz2     
certmonger.pp.bz2       fcoe.pp.bz2             l2tp.pp.bz2       
certwatch.pp.bz2        fetchmail.pp.bz2        ldap.pp.bz2
```
Decompression one and have a look closely:

```
zhuzhihao@debian:~$ cp /usr/share/selinux/default/apache.pp.bz2  /tmp/
zhuzhihao@debian:/tmp$ bzip2 -d apache.pp.bz2
zhuzhihao@debian:/tmp$ file apache.pp

apache.pp: SE Linux modular policy version 1, 2 sections, mod version 19, MLS, module name apache\006

```

Now you see, those are bzip2 compressesed file contain **compiled policy files** which have a `.pp` extension.

The way SELinux modularization works is that when the system boots, policy modules are combined into what's known as the active policy. This policy is then loaded into memory. 

In debian the combined version localated:

```
zhuzhihao@debian:~$ ls -l /etc/selinux/default/policy/
total 2156
-rw-r--r--. 1 root root 2207477 Jan 31 12:24 policy.31

zhuzhihao@debian:~$ ls -l /etc/selinux/mls/policy/
total 2172
-rw-r--r--. 1 root root 2222179 Jan 25 21:52 policy.31

```
Those are the active policy.

## SELinux Context

> we will be running the commands as the root user.

Use ld and flag `-Z` to list extera SELinux context of file you want lookup.
The security context of files in `/etc/ld.so.conf.d/`

```
zhuzhihao@debian:~$ ls -Z /etc/ld.so.conf.d/
system_u:object_r:etc_t:s0 fakeroot-x86_64-linux-gnu.conf
system_u:object_r:etc_t:s0 libc.conf
system_u:object_r:etc_t:s0 x86_64-linux-gnu.conf
```

The `system_u:object_r:etc_t:s0 ` informations said the file have been **Labelled** its Security context.There are four parts and each part of the security context is separated by a colon`:`
- `system_u`
The first part is the SELinux user context for the file:`system_u`.Each Linux user account maps to an SELinux user
- `object_r`
The second part specifies the SELinux role, which is `object_r`.
- `etc_t`

a file security context is a type and a process security context is a domain.
